README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/espebra/filebin.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/espebra/filebin)

![Viewing a bin](doc/screenshot-web-interface-bin.png)

Filebin is a web application that facilitates convenient file sharing over the web. It is the software behind [https://filebin.net](https://filebin.net).

## Table of contents

* [Features](#features)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Web interface](#web-interface)
* [Web service](#web-service)
* [Development](#development)
* [TODO](#todo)

## Features

* Responsive and mobile friendly [web interface](#web-interface).
* All functionality available through an [HTTP API](#web-service).
* Upload files using drag and drop, select files from a dialog box or use cURL ([examples below](#web-service))
* Large file support. 30 GB file upload has been tested, but it should work fine with larger files as well.
* Archive (tar and zip) download to make it easy to download multiple files in one go.
* Files expire automatically after a configurable period of time.
* Files and entire bins can be deleted manually.
* Thumbnails are displayed for image files.
* Album view is available in bins with images. Images are sorted based on the Exif DateTime timestamps.
* Triggers are capable of calling external scripts on certain events. One potential use case is to notify virus/malware scanners on file upload.
* No external dependencies once built.
* Cache invalidation support.

## Requirements

To build Filebin, a Golang build environment (Go version 1.4 or higher) and some Golang packages are needed. The build procedure will produce a statically linked binary that doesn't require any external dependencies to run. It even comes with its own web server bundled.

The build process requires quite a bit of memory to complete successfully. Rough experiments show that up to 4 GB of memory is needed. At runtime, though, the memory requirements are modest. It seems that with the more memory requirements have droppet with recent releases of Go.

It is recommended but not required to run it behind a TLS/SSL proxy such as [Hitch](http://hitch-tls.org/) and web cache such as [Varnish Cache](https://www.varnish-cache.org/). Example configurations for these [are provided](etc/).

## Installation

Install Golang:

```bash
$ sudo yum/apt-get/brew install golang
```

Last verified with Go 1.7.

Create the Go workspace and set the ``GOPATH`` environment variable:

```bash
$ mkdir ${HOME}/go
$ cd ${HOME}/go
$ mkdir src bin pkg
$ export GOPATH="${HOME}/go"
$ export PATH="${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin"
```

Download and install Filebin:

```bash
$ go get -d github.com/espebra/filebin
$ cd ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/espebra/filebin
$ make get-deps
$ make install
```

The binary is created as ``${GOPATH}/bin/filebin``, which can be executed immediately. The ``--version`` argument prints the build time and the git commit hash used in the build.

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin --version
Git Commit Hash: 40bd401ec350c86a46cdb3dc87f6b70c3c0b796b
UTC Build Time: 2015-11-11 23:01:35
```

Create the directories to use for storing files and temporary files:

```bash
$ mkdir ~/filebin ~/filebin/files ~/filebin/temp
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done using command line arguments when starting filebin. The built in help text will show the various arguments available:

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin --help
```

Some arguments commonly used to start ``filebin`` are:

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin \
  --host 0.0.0.0 --port 31337
  --baseurl http://api.example.com:31337
  --filedir ~/filebin/files \
  --tempdir ~/filebin/temp \
  --expiration 604800 \
  --cache-invalidation \
  --admin-username admin \
  --admin-password changeme \
  --client-address-header x-client \
  --access-log /var/log/filebin/access.log \
  [...]
```

By default it will listen on ``127.0.0.1:31337``.

### Command line arguments

The following are elaborations on some of the command line arguments.

#### Baseurl

The ``--baseurl`` parameter is used when building [HATEOAS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HATEOAS) links in the JSON responses and to generate the correct hyperlinks in the HTML responses. If ``--baseurl`` is wrong, the required css and javascript resources will not load properly.

An example when having a TLS/SSL proxy in front on port 443 would be ``--baseurl https://filebin.example.com``.

It is also possible to run filebin from a subdirectory if specifying this accordingly with for example ``--baseurl https://www.example.com/filebin``.

A trailing slash is not needed.

#### Expiration

Bins expire after some time of inactivity. By default, bins will expire 3 months after the most recent file was uploaded. It is not possible to download files or upload more files to bins that are expired.

``--expiration 86400`` will expire bins 24 hours after the last file has been uploaded.

#### Content-type filtering

To limit abuse it can be necessary to reject certain content-types. The ``--filter`` option can be applied multiple times in order to filter on multiple content-types. The filters are considered for each file upload using a sub string match on the content-type that is detected by the uploaded file.

``--filter text/html`` fill reject file uploads matching the content-type ``text/html``, including ``text/html; charset=utf-8``.

``--filter text/html --filter image`` fill reject file uploads matching the content-type ``text/html`` and all image files such as ``image/jpeg`` and ``image/png``.

#### Cache invalidation

Enabled with the parameter ``--cache-invalidation``. When enabled, HTTP PURGE requests will be sent to baseurl/path for every change to ensure content is invalidated on any frontend web cache.

#### Client Address Header

The parameter ``--client-address-header`` can specify a request header to read the original client IP address from. This might be useful if having one or more proxies on layer 7 in front of the filebin daemon.

#### Admin username and password

The parameters ``--admin-username`` and ``--admin-password`` will, if set, enable the administrator page. It is available at the URL baseurl/admin, with the specified username and password for login.

#### Access log

The parameter ``--access-log`` is used to set a full path for the access log. The access log is written in the [Combined Log Format](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/logs.html#combined).

#### Triggers

Triggers enable external scripts to be executed at certain events.

##### New bin

The parameter ``--trigger-new-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a new bin is being created. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-new-bin /usr/local/bin/new-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/new-bin <binid>``.

##### Upload file

The parameter ``--trigger-upload-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a new file is uploaded. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-upload-file /usr/local/bin/upload-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/upload-file <binid> <filename>``.

##### Download bin

The parameter ``--trigger-download-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a bin is downloaded as an archive. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-download-bin /usr/local/bin/download-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/download-bin <binid>``.

##### Download file

The parameter ``--trigger-download-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a file is downloaded. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-download-file /usr/local/bin/download-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/download-file <binid> <filename>``.

##### Delete bin

The parameter ``--trigger-delete-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a bin is deleted. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-delete-bin /usr/local/bin/delete-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/delete-bin <binid>``.

##### Delete file

The parameter ``--trigger-delete-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a file is deleted. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-delete-file /usr/local/bin/delete-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/delete-file <binid> <filename>``.

## Web interface

### Create new bin / empty bin

![New bin](doc/screenshot-web-interface-new-bin.png)

### File uploads in progress

![File uploads in progress](doc/screenshot-web-interface-uploading.png)

### View bin with files

![View bin with files](doc/screenshot-web-interface-bin.png)

## Web service

### Upload file

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------|
| **Method**		| ``POST``					|
| **URL**		| /						|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| ``filename``, ``bin``				|
| **Request body**	| File content in binary form			|
| **Success response**	| ``201``					|
| **Error response**	| ``400``					|

###### Examples

In all examples, the local file ``/path/to/some file`` will be uploaded.

Using the following command, the ``bin`` will be automatically generated and the ``filename`` of the uploaded file will be ``myfilename``:

```bash
$ curl --data-binary "@/path/to/some file" -H "filename: myfilename" https://filebin.example.com/
```

Using the following command, ``bin`` will be set to ``custombin`` and ``filename`` will be set to ``myfile``.

```bash
$ curl --data-binary "@/path/to/some file" https://filebin.example.com/ \
  -H "bin: custombin" -H "filename: myfile"
```

### Fetch bin details

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Method**		| ``GET``					|
| **URL**		| /:bin						|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| ``Accept: application/json``		|
| **Request body**	| *None*					|
| **Success response**	| ``200``					|
| **Error response**	| ``404``					|

###### Examples

The following command will print a JSON structure showing which files that available in the bin ``custombin``.

```bash
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" https://filebin.example.com/custombin
```

### Fetch bin as an archive

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Method**		| ``GET``					|
| **URL**		| /:archive/:bin/:format			|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| *None*					|
| **Request body**	| *None*					|
| **Success response**	| ``200``					|
| **Error response**	| ``404``					|

###### Examples

The following commands will download the files in ``custombin`` as tar and zip archives:

```bash
# Tar
$ curl -o custombin.tar https://filebin.example.com/archive/custombin/tar

# Zip
$ curl -o custombin.zip https://filebin.example.com/archive/custombin/zip
```

### Download file

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``GET``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin/:filename	|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

###### Examples

Downloading a file is as easy as specifying the ``bin`` and the ``filename`` in the request URI:

```bash
$ curl https://filebin.example.com/custombin/myfile
```

### Delete file

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``DELETE``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin/:filename	|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

### Delete bin

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``DELETE``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin			|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

###### Examples

```bash
$ curl -X DELETE https://filebin.example.com/custombin/myfile
```

## Logging

Logs are written to stdout, and can easily be redirected to for example syslog when using the [systemd service script provided](etc/systemd/filebin.service.example).

## Database

Filebin does currently not use any other database than the filesystem itself.

## Development

### Git hooks

There is a pre-commit hook available in the repository that will make sure that commited go source code is properly formatted. Enable it with a symlink:

```bash
$ ln -s tools/git/pre-commit .git/hooks/pre-commit
```

## TODO

* Automatically clean up expired bins.
* Avoid reuse of expired bins.
* Trigger cache invalidation on bin expiration.

Commit message:

Introduce token based access to reduce abuse
This new feature is disabled by default. By adding --hot-linking=false when starting filebin, token based access is activated. Tokens are generated and distributed when users navigate in filebin, and tokens are valid for a short period of time. This allows users to copy/paste a url and wget it on another computer. On the other hand, sending a direct link to phishing/malware content by email is less interesting with tokens since the token likely has expired when the user opens the link.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/espebra/filebin.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/espebra/filebin)

![Viewing a bin](doc/screenshot-web-interface-bin.png)

Filebin is a web application that facilitates convenient file sharing over the web. It is the software behind [https://filebin.net](https://filebin.net).

## Table of contents

* [Features](#features)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Web interface](#web-interface)
* [Web service](#web-service)
* [Development](#development)
* [TODO](#todo)

## Features

* Responsive and mobile friendly [web interface](#web-interface).
* All functionality available through an [HTTP API](#web-service).
* Upload files using drag and drop, select files from a dialog box or use cURL ([examples below](#web-service))
* Large file support. 30 GB file upload has been tested, but it should work fine with larger files as well.
* Archive (tar and zip) download to make it easy to download multiple files in one go.
* Files expire automatically after a configurable period of time.
* Files and entire bins can be deleted manually.
* Thumbnails are displayed for image files.
* Album view is available in bins with images. Images are sorted based on the Exif DateTime timestamps.
* Triggers are capable of calling external scripts on certain events. One potential use case is to notify virus/malware scanners on file upload.
* No external dependencies once built.
* Cache invalidation support.

## Requirements

To build Filebin, a Golang build environment (Go version 1.4 or higher) and some Golang packages are needed. The build procedure will produce a statically linked binary that doesn't require any external dependencies to run. It even comes with its own web server bundled.

The build process requires quite a bit of memory to complete successfully. Rough experiments show that up to 4 GB of memory is needed. At runtime, though, the memory requirements are modest. It seems that with the more memory requirements have droppet with recent releases of Go.

It is recommended but not required to run it behind a TLS/SSL proxy such as [Hitch](http://hitch-tls.org/) and web cache such as [Varnish Cache](https://www.varnish-cache.org/). Example configurations for these [are provided](etc/).

## Installation

Install Golang:

```bash
$ sudo yum/apt-get/brew install golang
```

Last verified with Go 1.7.

Create the Go workspace and set the ``GOPATH`` environment variable:

```bash
$ mkdir ${HOME}/go
$ cd ${HOME}/go
$ mkdir src bin pkg
$ export GOPATH="${HOME}/go"
$ export PATH="${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin"
```

Download and install Filebin:

```bash
$ go get -d github.com/espebra/filebin
$ cd ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/espebra/filebin
$ make get-deps
$ make install
```

The binary is created as ``${GOPATH}/bin/filebin``, which can be executed immediately. The ``--version`` argument prints the build time and the git commit hash used in the build.

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin --version
Git Commit Hash: 40bd401ec350c86a46cdb3dc87f6b70c3c0b796b
UTC Build Time: 2015-11-11 23:01:35
```

Create the directories to use for storing files and temporary files:

```bash
$ mkdir ~/filebin ~/filebin/files ~/filebin/temp
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done using command line arguments when starting filebin. The built in help text will show the various arguments available:

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin --help
```

Some arguments commonly used to start ``filebin`` are:

```bash
$ ${GOPATH}/bin/filebin \
  --host 0.0.0.0 --port 31337
  --baseurl http://api.example.com:31337
  --filedir ~/filebin/files \
  --tempdir ~/filebin/temp \
  --expiration 604800 \
  --cache-invalidation \
  --admin-username admin \
  --admin-password changeme \
  --client-address-header x-client \
  --access-log /var/log/filebin/access.log \
  [...]
```

By default it will listen on ``127.0.0.1:31337``.

### Command line arguments

The following are elaborations on some of the command line arguments.

#### Baseurl

The ``--baseurl`` parameter is used when building [HATEOAS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HATEOAS) links in the JSON responses and to generate the correct hyperlinks in the HTML responses. If ``--baseurl`` is wrong, the required css and javascript resources will not load properly.

An example when having a TLS/SSL proxy in front on port 443 would be ``--baseurl https://filebin.example.com``.

It is also possible to run filebin from a subdirectory if specifying this accordingly with for example ``--baseurl https://www.example.com/filebin``.

A trailing slash is not needed.

#### Expiration

Bins expire after some time of inactivity. By default, bins will expire 3 months after the most recent file was uploaded. It is not possible to download files or upload more files to bins that are expired.

``--expiration 86400`` will expire bins 24 hours after the last file has been uploaded.

#### Content-type filtering

To limit abuse it can be necessary to reject certain content-types. The ``--filter`` option can be applied multiple times in order to filter on multiple content-types. The filters are considered for each file upload using a sub string match on the content-type that is detected by the uploaded file.

``--filter text/html`` fill reject file uploads matching the content-type ``text/html``, including ``text/html; charset=utf-8``.

``--filter text/html --filter image`` fill reject file uploads matching the content-type ``text/html`` and all image files such as ``image/jpeg`` and ``image/png``.

#### Cache invalidation

Enabled with the parameter ``--cache-invalidation``. When enabled, HTTP PURGE requests will be sent to baseurl/path for every change to ensure content is invalidated on any frontend web cache.

#### Client Address Header

The parameter ``--client-address-header`` can specify a request header to read the original client IP address from. This might be useful if having one or more proxies on layer 7 in front of the filebin daemon.

#### Admin username and password

The parameters ``--admin-username`` and ``--admin-password`` will, if set, enable the administrator page. It is available at the URL baseurl/admin, with the specified username and password for login.

#### Access log

The parameter ``--access-log`` is used to set a full path for the access log. The access log is written in the [Combined Log Format](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/logs.html#combined).

#### Hot Linking

The parameter ``--hot-linking`` is enabled by default and allows hot linking of files. Hot linking is convenient sice it allows easy and direct access to files from other computers, but it also makes it easy to abuse the service. Starting Filebin with ``--hot-linking=false`` is a compromise that enables hot linking using tokens that are valid only for a short period of time.

#### Triggers

Triggers enable external scripts to be executed at certain events.

##### New bin

The parameter ``--trigger-new-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a new bin is being created. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-new-bin /usr/local/bin/new-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/new-bin <binid>``.

##### Upload file

The parameter ``--trigger-upload-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a new file is uploaded. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-upload-file /usr/local/bin/upload-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/upload-file <binid> <filename>``.

##### Download bin

The parameter ``--trigger-download-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a bin is downloaded as an archive. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-download-bin /usr/local/bin/download-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/download-bin <binid>``.

##### Download file

The parameter ``--trigger-download-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a file is downloaded. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-download-file /usr/local/bin/download-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/download-file <binid> <filename>``.

##### Delete bin

The parameter ``--trigger-delete-bin <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin>`` is executed whenever a bin is deleted. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-delete-bin /usr/local/bin/delete-bin`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/delete-bin <binid>``.

##### Delete file

The parameter ``--trigger-delete-file <command>`` makes sure ``<command> <bin> <filename>`` is executed whenever a file is deleted. The execution is non-blocking. Example:

``--trigger-delete-file /usr/local/bin/delete-file`` will execute ``/usr/local/bin/delete-file <binid> <filename>``.

## Web interface

### Create new bin / empty bin

![New bin](doc/screenshot-web-interface-new-bin.png)

### File uploads in progress

![File uploads in progress](doc/screenshot-web-interface-uploading.png)

### View bin with files

![View bin with files](doc/screenshot-web-interface-bin.png)

## Web service

### Upload file

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------|
| **Method**		| ``POST``					|
| **URL**		| /						|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| ``filename``, ``bin``				|
| **Request body**	| File content in binary form			|
| **Success response**	| ``201``					|
| **Error response**	| ``400``					|

###### Examples

In all examples, the local file ``/path/to/some file`` will be uploaded.

Using the following command, the ``bin`` will be automatically generated and the ``filename`` of the uploaded file will be ``myfilename``:

```bash
$ curl --data-binary "@/path/to/some file" -H "filename: myfilename" https://filebin.example.com/
```

Using the following command, ``bin`` will be set to ``custombin`` and ``filename`` will be set to ``myfile``.

```bash
$ curl --data-binary "@/path/to/some file" https://filebin.example.com/ \
  -H "bin: custombin" -H "filename: myfile"
```

### Fetch bin details

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Method**		| ``GET``					|
| **URL**		| /:bin						|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| ``Accept: application/json``		|
| **Request body**	| *None*					|
| **Success response**	| ``200``					|
| **Error response**	| ``404``					|

###### Examples

The following command will print a JSON structure showing which files that available in the bin ``custombin``.

```bash
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" https://filebin.example.com/custombin
```

### Fetch bin as an archive

|			| Value						|
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Method**		| ``GET``					|
| **URL**		| /:archive/:bin/:format			|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*					|
| **Request headers**	| *None*					|
| **Request body**	| *None*					|
| **Success response**	| ``200``					|
| **Error response**	| ``404``					|

###### Examples

The following commands will download the files in ``custombin`` as tar and zip archives:

```bash
# Tar
$ curl -o custombin.tar https://filebin.example.com/archive/custombin/tar

# Zip
$ curl -o custombin.zip https://filebin.example.com/archive/custombin/zip
```

### Download file

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``GET``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin/:filename	|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

###### Examples

Downloading a file is as easy as specifying the ``bin`` and the ``filename`` in the request URI:

```bash
$ curl https://filebin.example.com/custombin/myfile
```

### Delete file

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``DELETE``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin/:filename	|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

### Delete bin

|			| Value			|
| --------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Method**		| ``DELETE``		|
| **URL**		| /:bin			|
| **URL parameters**	| *None*		|
| **Request headers**	| *None*		|
| **Request body**	| *None*		|
| **Success response**	| ``200``		|
| **Error response**	| ``404``		|

###### Examples

```bash
$ curl -X DELETE https://filebin.example.com/custombin/myfile
```

## Logging

Logs are written to stdout, and can easily be redirected to for example syslog when using the [systemd service script provided](etc/systemd/filebin.service.example).

## Database

Filebin does currently not use any other database than the filesystem itself.

## Development

### Git hooks

There is a pre-commit hook available in the repository that will make sure that commited go source code is properly formatted. Enable it with a symlink:

```bash
$ ln -s tools/git/pre-commit .git/hooks/pre-commit
```

## TODO

* Automatically clean up expired bins.
* Avoid reuse of expired bins.
* Trigger cache invalidation on bin expiration.
